{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red67\green67\blue67;\red9\green80\blue208;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c33333\c33333\c33333;\cssrgb\c0\c41176\c85098;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14240\viewh11360\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 READ ME\
\
This folder has following files:\
1. d3-annotate.js\
2. testOption_p6.js\
3. testOption.csv\
4. webPage.html\
\
This is an illustration on a very beginning-level guide of plotting using d3 (what is d3?: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://d3js.org/"}}{\fldrslt https://d3js.org/}})\
You can visualise the sample graph by open 
\i\b webPage.html
\i0\b0  in a browser. It shows a semantic drift analysis of option from 1850 to 2000. \
 \
In this plot, you can:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf2 	\'95	\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Cmd + Click a label to remove it
\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1 \cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Click a point to add back the removed label\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Labels are draggable\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Shift + Click a label to edit text\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 How it can be done?
\b0 \
You don\'92t need to install d3. Instead, you can source it directly by passing the following code to the html page ( which is 
\i\b webpage.html
\b0  
\i0 in the folder):\
\

\i <script src="http://d3js.org/d3.v4.min.js"></script>
\i0 \
\
Other than the code above, the html page also host the following two lines of code:\
\
<script src="d3-annotate.js"></script>     //
\i  an open-source java script that allows annotation function. It is a plug-in to D3
\i0 \
<script src="testOption_p6.js"></script>  
\i // this is sourced to the D3 script I wrote. 
\i0 \
\
I have made as detailed comments as I can to the 
\i\b testOption_p6.js
\i0\b0 . The 
\b testOption.csv
\b0  file have to be under the same directory/folder for the js code to work. \
\

\b How to debug code?\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 After open the 
\i\b webPage.html 
\i0\b0  in a browser, you can press F12 (or fn+F12 if using Mac) to see where the code went wrong. Click Console for more debugging information. \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 How to set up working environment?\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 I use sublime 3. \
Install 
\i d3 package 
\i0 will help you a bit by offering convenient code completion :{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://packagecontrol.io/packages/D3js%20v4"}}{\fldrslt https://packagecontrol.io/packages/D3js%20v4}}\
Install by cmd+shift+p to initiate command palette, then type 
\i package control: install package, 
\i0 then search for the package you need.\
\
Importantly, many code samples offered online are written in version 3 or earlier. We are using
\b  version 4 
\b0 in this project. \
The package I mentioned above provide code snippets for changes from v3 to v4. The function is accessible from the command pallette (Mac: cmd+shift+p)\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs30 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\b\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Additional information
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Some d3 tutorial links (we are using Version 4):\
coloured scatter plot with annotation: \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://bl.ocks.org/cmpolis/f9805a98b8a455aaccb56e5ee59964f8"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 https://bl.ocks.org/cmpolis/f9805a98b8a455aaccb56e5ee59964f8}}\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://bl.ocks.org/emeeks/625641430adead4bd7dbc9c1ab3f5102"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 https://bl.ocks.org/emeeks/625641430adead4bd7dbc9c1ab3f5102}}\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
\
}